# django-icybackup

Back up your databases and media directory to a local file/directory or Amazon Glacier. Works with PostgreSQL, MySQL and sqlite.

A fork of (a fork of) django-backup which adds:

- Multiple database support
- Optionally save your backups to Amazon Glacier
- Less assumptions about presence of a Bourne-like shell and GNU tools
- Less tarballception (no more redundant tarballs inside tarballs)
- Postgres-specific improvements:
	- Uses the custom archive type for `pg_dump`, for maximum flexibility at restore time, so there's no need to worry about having to hand-edit or craft cryptic regexes for a many-thousand-line SQL file when restoring just because the wrong command line flags were used when making the backup.
	- Doesn't pass PostgreSQL database password via command line argument, as doing so can reveal your database password to other users on the same machine.

**Warning to MySQL Users:** This script may expose your MySQL database password to other users on the same machine, as it is passed in via a command line argument. Pull requests to fix this problem are welcome.

## Installation

Run `pip install django-icybackup`, then add `icybackup` to your `INSTALLED_APPS`.

## Usage

### Backing up

- `manage.py backup -o backup.tgz` - back up to `backup.tgz`
- `manage.py backup -d backups` - back up to `backups/[CURRENT_DATETIME].tgz`
- `manage.py backup -g arn:was:glacier:us-east-1:2584098540980:vaults/my-website-backups` - backup to the `my-website-backups` Amazon Glacier vault, given by it's ARN
- `manage.py backup --stdout` - back up to stdout

Supports the following optional flags:

- `-e extra_file` - Add an extra file or directory to the backup (can be specified multiple times)

### Restoring

- `manage.py restore -i backup.tgz` - restore from `backup.tgz`
- `manage.py restore --stdin` - restore from stdin

Optional flags:

- `--pg-restore-flags` - flags to pass to the `pg_restore` process (default is `Oxc`). If the database you're restoring into exists and is empty, use `--pg-restore-flags=Ox`.

Tip: If you want to move servers, or copy your production database/media exactly to development or staging, it is possible to do something like this:

    ssh other-server 'cd path/to/app && manage.py backup --stdout' | manage.py restore --stdin

### `settings.py` settings

- `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` - Optional, but required for Amazon Glacier upload to work.
- `PG_DUMP_BIN`, `PG_RESTORE_BIN`, `MYSQLDUMP_BIN`, `MYSQL_BIN` - Optional. Set these to the full paths to the `pg_dump` and `pg_restore`, `mysqldump` and `mysql` binaries. If not set, icybackup will try to find them on the search path. (Note that cron jobs often run with a much smaller search path, so it's a good idea to set these if you're backing up using cron.)

## To do

- Backup directory cleanup command
- Tests
- remove password from `mysqldump` process name
- Restore command
- Commands to reconcile and prune Glacier backups

## Contributors

The following people contributed code to this project or its ancestors, in chronological order by first commit:

- Dmitriy Kovalev
- Ted Tieken
- Chris Cohoat
- Jamie Matthews
- Yar Kravtsov
- Adam Brenecki, St Barnabas' Theological College

## License

Copyright &copy; 2012, St Barnabas' Theological College  
Copyright &copy; 2011, Ted Tieken  
Copyright &copy; 2011, http://code.google.com/p/django-backup/  
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.